# SociallyFairKMeans
Implementation of the Socially Fair KMeans algorithm on the HMS dataset.

**Data Cleaning**
_SplitDatasetSociallyFairKmenas.py_ is the first file that should be run. It takes in the data from all MD students who filled out the Healthy Minds Survey from 2016 to 2021, and it cleans the data to produce files that are used by the rest of the code.


**Fair Cluster Generation**
Then, run _SociallyFairImplementation_HMS.m_. It will generate a set of fair and non-fair centers that are used by the rest of the framework.

**Data Visualization** **OPTIONAL**

Each of these files will generate a visualization of the base data that has been fed in to generate the clustering centers.

_Generate3dPlot.m_ will generate a 3d scatter plot to visualize the PHQ-9, GAD-7, and Diener scores of all the data points, colored by their race and overlaid by the fair and nonfair centers.

_GenerateFairPair3DPlots.m_ generates a 3d plot of each pair of fair combinations into a single panel

_GenerateIndividual3DPlots.m_ Generates a 3d plot of each fair pair individually (not as a panel plot)

_GeneratePanelPlotOfAllDatabyRace.m_ Generates a 3d plot of each data point by race as one panel plot

**Calculation of Clustering Costs**
_calculateComparativeCosts.m_ will calculate the clustering costs of each fairness-aware clustering solution generated by _SociallyFairImplementationHMS.m_
_calculateNonFairComparativeCosts.m_ will calculate the clustering costs of each standard K-means (no fairness) clustering solution generated by _SociallyFairImplementationHMS.m_

**ATE analysis**
First, run _ANOVA.py_
Then, run ANOVA.py → IterativeCausalInference.py → HighestImpactAnalysis.py → VariablePropertions.py → VarProportionsByCluster.m → AnalyzeVarProp.m → FindExclusiveQuantiles → UniqueVarsATE.py
This will yield the ATE of each variable from the dataset. 



